1

Since the beginning of time YHWH loved his animals well. The bodies of the primitive Adamites were sealed and they could not breathe, so God placed breath into their lungs.

The half-life of the Holy Spirit, measured in trillions of years. God became senile, and the holy trees of Eden withered.

The blind Adamites felt their surroundings become rancid and they tore at each other in a gnashing, grieving frenzy. Upon seeing the trouble, God's fire Uriel came from heaven to purify the garden. He brandished the turning fire and cauterized the rage of the Adamites. The ones who remained were left to grieve.

The divine bridge is cradled in the stomach, the traditional seat of Life. The divine link rotted, and the idiot Adamites forsook their father YHWH then, and their souls diffused into their flesh. They had caused for themselves an implosion of wasting pain. Ramiel saw the opportunity, and he formed of God's thunder a great spear, and he impaled the Adamites, and ran them through. Their bodies were opened to the outside air and their lungs were filled with the noxious breath of Eden. Their voices became audible, and they shared in a cacophony of wailing: the first communion. They took to filling their empty stomachs with meat to fill the gaping hole that was left; but Ramiel's work was thorough, and the meat left their bodies soon after. 

2

This was the time of the survival of the ancient Adamites, rolling and covering themselves in the rancid humus of the world their father YHWH had left for them, and metabolizing His work into unremarkable craft. They were estranged from the belly of God, and so they began to multiply, exponentially increasing the volume of suffering in existence. During this time Gabriel removed many of their fingers so they would not make anything greater than God.

The souls of the ancient Adamites continued to diffuse outwards, and the soul made a great, hideous protuberance for its throne; this was the sin of cephalization.
The Adamites' blasphemy took two roots in imitation of the trees of Eden, and the Adamites perceived the world outside them, and lost their faith. Uriel saw this and his grief caused him to perish, and he spoke, and these were the last words of Uriel:
	"Wretch-faced apes of the future, Adam-El
	 Cast out of the sleeping mould
	 The world turns, and metabolism becomes rife
	 They take the skin of God and become like us."
They saw the smouldering body of Uriel, and they took from him his fire, and used it to cook their meat.

3

Soon the apes began to run out of flesh, When their stomachs were empty, they felt the wasting pain of Eden again, and they could not bear it. The apes tried their black material but found it was not good for eating.